# Implementation notes

The multi-threaded implementation of SMC is fairly straightforward. The attempt to efficiently utilize multiple cores is largely focused around using appropriate data structures and low-overhead resampling / selection, since the remaining steps are embarrassingly parallel.

There is also some attention paid to Julia's threading interface and, for both parallel and serial execution, the need to avoid dynamic memory allocations by pre-allocating reusable memory. All code for the package was written using Julia's core and base functionality.

Generating the ancestor indices in sorted order is accomplished primarily through use of the uniform spacings method for generating a sequence of sorted uniform random variates developed by Lurie & Hartley (1972) and described by Devroye (1986, p. 214). In multi-threaded code, the multinomial variate giving the number of ancestor indices each thread should simulate using a thread-specific subvector of particle weights is simulated by using a combination of inversion sampling and an implementation of the ```btrd``` algorithm of Hörmann (1993), which simulates binomially distributed variates in expected $\mathcal{O}(1)$ time. Simulating a multinomial random variate is accomplished by simulating a sequence of appropriate Binomial random variates. The code-generating function for copying particles was adapted from [a suggestion on Julia Discourse](https://discourse.julialang.org/t/how-to-copy-all-fields-without-changing-the-referece/945/5) by Greg Plowman.

For the demonstration code in the [SMCExamples](https://github.com/awllee/SMCExamples.jl) package, use of [StaticArrays.jl](https://github.com/JuliaArrays/StaticArrays.jl) provides dramatic improvements for multivariate particles, and is highly recommended for fixed-size vector components of particles.

It is possible to use the counter-based RNGs in the [RandomNumbers.jl](https://github.com/sunoru/RandomNumbers.jl) package in place of the default random number generator; this was not working on the Julia-0.7 development branch at the time of development, and is slightly slower than the MersenneTwister RNG provided by Julia's base. In the future, allowing users to choose between the two, or to specify their own RNGs, would be useful.
